Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you a Drama, Thriller film
from 2011, titled Contagion.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Day 2
Beth is at an airport lounge talking on the
phone with John, whom she's having an affair
with, while waiting for her flight.
She looks sick and is coughing, but brushes
it off as her being jet lagged.
In Hong Kong a young man gets off a ferry
and takes the subway.
By the time he gets home, he is sweating profusely.
When he leaves his apartment, his vision gets
blurry, and he walks into traffic.
In London a model is feeling sick, so she
leaves work and goes back to her hotel room.
Later the hotel staff come into the room and
find her dead on the bathroom floor.
A businessman flies to Tokyo and takes the
bus, but collapses on the floor.
An onlooker films him with his phone.
Beth arrives home to her son and her husband
Mitch.
Day 3
In San Francisco a blogger- Alan is watching
the video of the businessman collapsing.
He's guessing it might be mercury poisoning
from the fish and that there are probably
more people like him, that just weren't caught
on camera.
Mitch picks his son up from school and is
informed that he's been coughing and has elevated
body temperature.
Later as he is telling his wife about his
day, she drops her cup and when he comes to
help, she collapses on the floor and starts
seizing.
They are in the hospital and she starts seizing
again.
A bit later the doctor informs Mitch that
she has passed away.
He is in shock and can't accept it, saying
they just talked and she was just jetlagged.
The doctor doesn't know what caused it so
he recommends an autopsy.
As Mitch is driving home he gets a call from
the babysitter that informs him that his son
isn't breathing.
He tells her to call 911 and rushes home to
find him dead as well.
Day 5
2 medical examiners are doing an autopsy on
Beth's body.
As they open her skull, they notice something
strange on her brain.
One of them asks whether he should take a
sample, but the other instructs him to move
away from the table and call everyone.
Day 6
Dr Erin Mears works for the CDC.
She is briefed by Dr Cheever on her part of
containing the virus.
She is tasked to travel to Minnesota where
she is to investigate and contain cases of
infection.
Mitch is in quarantine at a hospital.
He is visited by his daughter Jory from a
previous marriage.
He says that he isn't sick and is only there
as a precaution.
She says that she should've been there and
could have helped but he says she would've
gotten sick too.
He tells her to go back to her mother but
seeing as she’s all he got left she decides
to stay with him.
Dr Erin is briefing government officials on
the mysterious outbreak that has reached 47
confirmed cases and 8 deaths.
She informs them that it's most likely transmitted
through air and maybe surfaces as well.
The officials don't want to freak out the
public, because they don't even know what
they're dealing with.
Erin says that to determine the potential
scale of the epidemic, it's crucial to figure
out the average number of people one person
can infect.
Two scientists (Ally and David) are working
with the brain sample from Beth in a secure
lab.
They don't know what this virus is, so they
send the results to a scientist that might.
Later as Ian is walking out of his lab, informing
the 2 scientists that the virus strain has
never been seen before and appears to come
from animals, he is ambushed by Alan, who
tries to get some information for his blog,
while rambling that the virus is a biological
weapon, but the scientist doesn't tell him
anything.
Day 7
Dr Erin is at Beth's workplace talking to
her coworkers.
None of them directly interacted with Beth
after she came back from China so Erin reassures
them.
They mention that another coworker took her
home from the airport, so she immediately
calls him.
He is on the bus and she instructs him to
get off because he is highly contagious.
He waits at the stop until Beth arrives with
a containment crew.
Meanwhile, a doctor asks Mitch a bunch of
questions about Beth, trying to figure out
the virus origin and other people she may
have interacted with.
The doctor mentions that she landed in Chicago
before flying to Minnesota 5 hours later,
and asks him if she left the airport or had
any meetings there.
He asks whether someone is sick in Chicago
and that before they got married she had a
relationship with John Neil, who lives there.
Realization hits Mitch and he asks if John
is infected, the doctor doesn't answer, saying
that she can’t give out that information.
Ally informs Cheever that the virus contains
Pig and Bat sequences and shows him how the
virus attaches to humans.
She also says that the virus keeps mutating.
The virus mortality rate is over 20%, and
there are no treatment protocols or vaccines
so Dr. Cheever orders that from now on only
highest security labs should work on it, in
fear of it leaking out.
Ally calls Ian and tells him he isn't allowed
to work on the virus because his lab doesn't
have the right security certification.
He thinks this is a mistake, because he is
making progress and thinks that only working
on it in government run labs will slow the
research.
Day 8
Dr Cheever informs the public that the virus
is in Minneapolis, Chicago, Los Angeles, Boston
and Salt lake and that the list is expected
to grow.
The number of infected people worldwide is
estimated to be at 89 thousand.
Cheever and Ally are at the CDC, discussing
the virus with scientists from all over the
world.
Nobody has managed to grow the virus in cells,
because it kills every animal cell they have
tried.
Dr Leonora has been sent to Hong Kong to investigate
Beth's movements to find ground 0.
She is met by Sun Feng.
Using Beth's credit card records she learns
that she was at a casino, so Leonora orders
the casino's security tapes.
Ian defies orders and keeps working on the
virus.
He manages to grow the virus using a particular
bat's cells, which is the first step in making
a vaccine.
He shares the research and Cheever is not
happy that he defied orders and asks what
he wants to gain from it, but instead of selling
the results to some drug company he just wants
acknowledgement for his work.
Day 12
The worldwide infected estimate has reached
8 million.
Alan is approached by a hedge fund guy, who
is looking for an opportunity to gain money
from this and thinks Alan might give him one,
seeing that he was the first to pay attention
to the bus video and has been talking about
it on his blog since, reaching over 2 million
unique visitors.
Alan tells him about Forsythia, he thinks
it's the cure.
Leonora is watching the casino footage where
the first known infected can be seen interacting,
but the Chinese officials say that this isn't
proof that the virus originated here, stating
that you can't see a virus on camera.
Erin is planning to make a makeshift hospital
at multiple stadiums in preparation for an
increase in infected.
Day 14
Erin wakes up in the hotel room coughing.
She takes her temperature and realizes she
has the virus so she informs the hotel staff
to get her the names of everyone who has serviced
the room.
She calls Cheever and tells him the bad news
and later ends up in one of the stadiums.
Cheever tries to get her to a better facility
but is told that it's a waste of resources
for just one person.
In China, Leonora has finished her research
and concluded that Beth is patient zero and
will send the data to Geneva.
Sun Feng says he read on the internet that
the United States and France have a vaccine
but are hiding it from China.
As she leaves he makes a phone call.
While driving, the car is stopped and Leonora
is put in a van.
Sun Feng takes her to his village and plans
on using her as collateral to get the vaccine
as early as possible.
Cheever is informed that there are plans to
quarantine chicago.
The national guard is setting up roadblocks
and shutting down the border.
The secret service is moving the president
underground and congress is figuring out how
to work online.
He is also told that when word of this gets
out, there will be widespread panic, so it's
crucial to not tell anyone until they are
ready to announce it publicly.
Alan has caught the virus and is making a
video for his blog of him taking Forsythia,
saying that if he's alive tomorrow everyone
will know it works.
Later that day Cheever calls his wife and
instructs her to leave Chicago and not tell
anyone.
She picks up a ton of supplies and when a
friend inquires about the situation, she spills
the beans.
Day 18
Apparently Alan's blog is gaining traction
and he's still alive, so a bunch of people
are waiting in line at a pharmacy and once
they are informed that only 50 doses of Forsythia
will be given out, a panic ensues and they
all scramble.
Mitch and his daughter go to the store for
some food, but the city is in disarray, with
people looting and sick people walking around
without masks and coughing, so they get outta
there.
They try to get to a neighboring state and
learn that the border is closed because they
are in quarantine.
Erin is still at one of the stadiums.
When a man next to her complains about being
cold, Erin tries to give him her jacket, but
is too weak to do so.
She dies not long after.
Cheever is having a tv interview where alternative
unproven drugs are being talked about.
He informs that they are being evaluated but
besides that, the best people can do is wash
their hands and social distance.
When Alan comes on, he is quoted saying that
the truth about the virus is being kept from
the world by the CDC and WHO to allow friends
of the current administration to benefit financially
and physically.
Alan insists that the WHO is in bed with pharmaceutical
companies but Cheever denies these claims
and reasons that there is no science to back
up Forsythia.
Alan discredits him, because apparently his
wifes friend posted about the quarantine on
Facebook, hours before the official announcement.
Later Cheever is told that he can't yet be
replaced, but there will be an investigation
and he is to keep out of the public eye for
now.
Day 21
David and Ally find out that the virus has
mutated and the new strain is way more contagious.
They've been testing potential vaccines on
monkeys but none have survived thus far.
The mortality rate is between 25 and 30%,
depending on a person's health, diet and socioeconomic
status.
It is expected that with this new strain each
person will infect 4 more whereas previously
it was 2, and without a vaccine it is anticipated
that approximately 8% of the world population
will contract the disease.
Day 26
The death toll in the United States has reached
2.5 million.
The president has issued a statement implementing
mandatory curfew in major metropolitan areas,
due to the riots.
The military is distributing rations but runs
out while hundreds are still waiting in line
and people start fighting.
Later Mitch hears shots in the neighbouring
house and tries to call 911 but all lines
are busy.
Day 29
Mitch breaks into the neighbours empty house
and steals a gun.
Jory is in the backyard with her boyfriend,
making snow angels.
He gets on top of her and takes off his mask.
She turns away but he reasons that if none
of them have the virus they can't give it
to each other.
They are about to kiss but Mitch shows up
and pulls him off of her and orders for him
to go home.
Back at the CDC Ally's vaccine finally works
and she injects herself.
She goes to see her father at a hospital,
takes off her mask and tells him about the
news.
He is concerned and says he doesn't want to
get her sick but she says she's testing the
vaccine.
The vaccine starts being manufactured and
FDA is accelerating the approval.
The first doses available for humans are expected
in around 90 days, but it could take a year
to get everyone vaccinated.
The current death toll worldwide from the
virus is estimated to be 26 million.
Day 131
Cheevers house is broken into by robbers,
who are looking for the vaccine.
The robbers ask his wife where it is, thinking
that they would get it first because he works
for the government, but they don't.
Cheever gets home and asks if they hurt her.
Alan, who is still against the vaccine, is
talking to the hedge fund guy.
He says that the studies show that there is
no proof that Forsythia works and asks if
he knew about them when they first met.
Alan questions the integrity of the studies
implying that there is some conspiracy.
He then notices a suspicious man and realizes
that he's wearing a wire so he tries to run
but is apprehended by the authorities, who
arrest him for securities fraud, conspiracy
and possible manslaughter.
He insists That Forsythia cured him.
Day 133
Since there is not enough vaccines for everyone
yet, a lottery is held using birthdays to
distribute it fairly.
Back in China, Leonora has adjusted to her
captivity and is teaching the children.
Sun Feng informs her that it's time to go,
because the government has agreed to their
demands and will give them 100 doses of the
vaccine in exchange for her.
They make the exchange and Leonora is free.
She's at the airport with the man who was
sent to do the exchange and he gives her a
vaccine and reveals that the ones they exchanged
for her were placebos.
Apparently there have been many kidnappings
of scientists and government officials, trying
to extort vaccines so the government refuses
to give in to their demands.
Leonora is horrified that they would condemn
a village of mostly children to death and
runs off.
Alan's blood results showed no antibodies
for the virus, which means he faked being
sick, to push Forsythia on his followers,
which made him 4.5 million dollars.
Because of him, there are now millions of
people who don't trust the vaccine.
One of his followers made bail for him so
he walks out.
Day 135
Alan is back on the street resuming his blog,
pushing the narrative that the US is responsible
for the virus and that vaccines are a scam
to his 12 million internet followers.
Otherwise things are starting to go back to
normal with anarchy and looting subsiding.
Ally and David put the virus in liquid nitrogen
storage with other deadly viruses from the
past.
Mitch finally lets Jory see her boyfriend
since he is now vaccinated and gifts her a
dress for a makeshift prom he has organized.
He gets the camera to take some pictures but
breaks down crying after seeing Beth's pictures.
A final flashback occurs.
A bat is seen dropping a piece of fruit in
a pig farm.
One of the pigs eats it and gets infected.
A chef is preparing the pig but is told that
someone wants to take a picture with him.
He goes out without washing his hands and
takes a picture with Beth.
The End.
Thank you for watching!
Subscribe if you'd like to see more videos
like this.